--- Page 1 ---
Haxial KDX 1.520 Documentation
Haxial Software
http://www.haxialsoftware.com/
Description
KDX is a "BBS"-style (Bulletin Board System) encrypted internet communications system that provides voice 
chat, text chat, messaging, news, file transfer, trackers etc.  It uses strong encryption to protect your 
communications for security and privacy.  It is very useful for groups that need to collaborate on a project via 
the Internet.  KDX uses a client/server basis (NOT peer-to-peer).
While KDX works very well over the Internet, it also works very well on a LAN (local area network).  KDX 
does not require an Internet connection, and is thus suitable for use on an internal company LAN, and for home 
or small business networking.
Please note that a glossary  appears at the end of this document, so if you encounter any terms that you are 
unfamiliar with, you can consult the glossary.
How do I get started with KDX?
Try the following to get you started: 
(1) Open KDX Client.
(2) Click "Connect".
(3) Click "Tracker" to change the tick to "Tracker".
(4) Where it says "Address", you need to type in the address of a KDX Tracker that you have obtained 
yourself.
(5) Leave the other boxes EMPTY.
(6) Click Connect.
(7) Wait a moment.
(8) When you see "General" in the list, click it.
(9) A list of servers appears in the bottom list after a moment. Click one to connect to it. 
You can repeat this process with a different tracker address to find different servers. 
The Importance Of Context Menus
KDX uses Context Menus extensively.  Many commands are “hidden” in Context Menus, so if you do not 
know how to use the Context Menus, you will miss many commands.  A Context Menu is a menu that appears 
when you second-click on something.  The commands in the menu act upon the object that you clicked on, or 
on the surrounding area in that window.  “Second-click” means clicking on something using the other mouse 
button than you normally use (usually the right mouse button).   If your mouse has only 1 button, then hold 
down the control key while you click to simulate the second button.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 1 of 32

--- Page 2 ---
In addition to Context Menus, KDX uses Window Menus.  A Window Menu is accessed by clicking the 
 symbol that appears in the title bar of some windows, or alternatively by second-clicking in the title bar.
Button Bar Window
This is the main/base window in KDX.  It is your starting point for many of the commands.  Probably the first 
button that you will want to use is the Connect button, which connects you to a server.  Then you can use the 
other buttons.  KDX contains many commands and features, more than can be displayed on the button bar 
window (only the most commonly used are displayed).  To see the full list of commands, connect to a server, 
and then click the “Commands” button.  Note that the “Commands” button also shows a list of all the servers 
(or clients or trackers) that you are connected to, and you can click on one to show a sub-menu of all the 
commands for that server.
You can see 2 numbers at the bottom.  The left one is the number of connections (places that you have 
connected to).  The right one is the number of active file transfers (if you have started downloading or 
uploading a file or folder).
Connect Window
Before you can interact with a KDX Server (such as chat with other people, or download files), you must 
connect to it (like calling someone on the telephone).  The Connect window is thus used to connect to a server.  
It can also connect to another client, or to a tracker.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 2 of 32

--- Page 3 ---
Type: Here you select what type of service you want to connect to.  For example, Server, Client, or 
Tracker.  If you do not know, you can select “Auto-Detect”, which allows you to enter an address, 
and KDX will try to connect to it and automatically determine what it is.
Name: This is not your name.  It is a name to assign to this connection so that you can recognize it.  This 
name will appear in the list of connections in the “Commands” menu.  Normally you can just 
simply leave this empty, and KDX will handle the name automatically.
Address: This is the most important part.  Here you type the Internet address of the computer that you want 
to connect to.  If this is wrong, you will not be able to connect.  You can think of Internet 
addresses like telephone numbers.  They are NOT telephone numbers, but the concept is similar.  
Where do you find the correct address of a server on the Internet?  Usually a friend will tell you, or 
you will find the information on a webpage.
Login: A login and password combination is used to provide security and authentication.  It proves your 
identity to the remote server/computer, and usually allows you greater access.  In order to have a 
login and password, you must have an account on the server computer.  If you do not, then just 
simply leave the login and password blank, and KDX will attempt to connect as a Guest user.
Password: The password that is paired with the Login.
User List Window
This window shows a list of every person who is connected to a server, including their name, description, 
icon, and class color bar.  The class color bar is that vertical bar of color to the left of the icon.  The actual 
meaning of this bar depends on the server.  Ask the administrator of the server if you want to know.  By 
default, black means the person is a Guest, blue means the person is a regular User, and red means the person 
is an Administrator.  If you second-click on a user, you will see a context menu with these commands:
Send Message: Shows a window which allows you to type a message which will be sent privately and 
only to this user.
Get Info: Shows a window with various information about the user.
Copy Description: Copies the description text of the user (which appears after the name of the user) to the 
clipboard.  You can then paste it somewhere else in the normal manner.
Invite To New Chat: Invite the user to a new private chat “room”.  This allows you to have a private 
conversation with the person.  Other people may also be invited to the same chat.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 3 of 32

--- Page 4 ---
Disconnect: This window allows you to disconnect and optionally ban a user.  See the topic 
“Disconnect User Window” further ahead in this documentation.
Chat Window
Transcript box: This is the big scrolling text box. A transcript of the chat appears here.
Input box: This is the small text box below the transcript text box.  Here you can type a message to 
send to everyone in the chat.  Press the Return or Enter key when you are ready to send 
the message.  Press the Escape key if you want to quickly clear the contents of this box.
User list: A list of the users who are in this chat, and can see any text that is sent to this chat.  
Note that you can second-click in this list, and use the “Invite Users To This Chat” 
command, which sends an invitation to the other users of your choice who are not 
currently in the chat.
Topic: Click this button to set a topic for the chat.  A topic is simply text that appears at the 
bottom of the window.  It may be a short description of what is currently being 
discussed, or of the purpose of the chat, or an amusing anecdote or URL, etc.
Window Menu commands:
Show Files: Show the files for the same server as the chat.
Show News: Show the news for the same server as the chat.
Show User List: Show the user list for the same server as the chat.
Invite Users To This Chat: If there are users who are connected to the server but not present in this chat, 
then you can use this command to invite them to join this chat.
Clear Text: Remove the contents of the transcript text box.  For example, you can use this 
to remove sensitive information from the screen without leaving the chat.
Save Window Location/Size: Saves the location/width/height of the window, and the size of the panes.  Any 
chat windows created in future will use these settings.
Last Chat: Shows the time at which the last chat text arrived (the bottom-most text in the 
transcript window).
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 4 of 32

--- Page 5 ---
Special Chat Commands
Some special commands can be typed into the chat input box.  All commands must begin with a forward slash 
(‘/’) or a backward slash (‘\’).
/me <text> Sends your text to the chat using the “action” format.  For example, if your user 
name is “Satan”, and you typed “I feel hungry”, then normally it would appear 
like this:
   <Satan> I feel hungry
But if you instead type “/me feels hungry”, then it will appear like this:
   *** Satan feels hungry
/me's <text> This is the possessive version of the previous command.  For example, if you 
type “/me's pants are on fire!”, then it will appear as:
   *** Satan's pants are on fire!
/name <new-name> Changes your name to the specified name.  This may be quicker than going to 
Settings.
/n <new-name> Same as the previous.
/desc <new-description> Changes your description (the text that appears after your name in the user list).  
This may be quicker than going to Settings.
/d <new-description> Same as the previous.
/away Causes a “Zzz” symbol to be displayed next to your name in the user list.
/a Same as the previous.
/back Removes the previously mentioned “Zzz” symbol.
/b Same as the previous.
/afk Causes an Away From Keyboard symbol to be displayed next to your name in the 
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 5 of 32

--- Page 6 ---
user list.  Use the /back command to remove this when you are back at the 
keyboard.
News Window
The news window is used to post semi-permanent messages that other people can read at their leisure, like a 
bulletin board.  The window consists of 2 panes.  The top pane contains a list of the servers that you are 
connected to, and if you click the “+” next to a server, you can see a list of the Newsgroups that are within that 
server.  Then if you click on one of those newsgroups, in the bottom pane you can see the messages that are 
inside that newsgroup.  You can post your own message using the “Post Message” button.
You can also second-click a message for additional self-explanatory options.  Administrators can delete 
messages this way.
If you post a news message, and then immediately realize that you made a mistake, you can delete your own 
message, even if you do not have the “Can Delete News Messages” access privilege.  This only works if your 
message is still the most recent message in the newsgroup, and you are not logged in as guest.  The most recent 
message is considered to be your own if the login stored with the message is the same as your own.
Administrators can create or edit newsgroups on their server by second-clicking on their server or a newsgroup 
in the top pane.  This will show the New/Edit Newsgroup window with these text boxes:
Name: The name of the newsgroup.
Description: A short description to appear with the name of the newsgroup.  For example, this can 
describe the purpose of the newsgroup.
Archive Size: KDX Server can automatically archive old news messages.  It puts them into a text file 
inside the folder “News Archives” in the same folder as the KDX Server program, and 
then removes them from the newsgroup.  So here you can select how many kilobytes 
each archive file should be.  Note that KDX Server will wait until significant more news 
than this accumulates in the newsgroup to avoid leaving the newsgroup empty.
Access List: Here you can control which Account Classes can read and/or post to this newsgroup.  
So for example, if the Class called “Guest” has Read Only access, then any accounts in 
the “Guest” class can read this newsgroup, but not post to it.
Files Window
The Files window is where you can browse what files are on the server, as well as initiate file transfers.
Back: Goes to the parent folder.
Refresh: Retrieves the list of files/items from the server again (use this to see changes).
Path Menu: Shows the path to the current folder (it’s location, or the parent folder, and its 
parent, etc).  You can click one of the folders in this menu to go to that folder.
Number: The number in [square brackets] is the number of items in the folder.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 6 of 32

--- Page 7 ---
Hierarchy List: This is the left pane.  It shows the folder hierarchy, not including any files, 
allowing you to quickly navigate to the folder of your choice, without the 
distraction of files.  Click a “+” to show the folders that are inside that folder (the 
“children” of that folder).  When you are ready to see the files in your eventual 
destination folder, click the folder name, and the contents will appear in the right 
pane.
File List: Displays the contents of the current folder.  You can contiguously select multiple 
items using the Shift key while clicking, or discontiguously using the Control 
(Command) key.  Second-click on an item to show a context menu with these 
commands:
Get Info: Show a window with general information about the item.
Copy Name To Clipboard: Copy the name of the item to the clipboard, where it can then be pasted 
somewhere else (saves you from retyping it).
Download: Download the selected files/folders.  Note that this command is very useful to 
download a whole folder.
Launch Program: Launch the selected item on the server computer.  You can use this to remotely 
run a program or script etc.
Select for Move/Alias: When you want to move some files/items, or create aliases/shortcuts, you must 
first use this command to choose which items you want to operate on (which 
items you want to move).  Note that this command does work with multiple items 
at once.  Next, navigate to your desired destination folder, and then use one of the 
following commands.
Move into “foldername”: The items that you chose/selected using the “Select for Move/Alias” command will 
be moved into the specified folder.  Note that this command changes depending 
on whether you clicked on a folder icon or not.  If you clicked on a folder icon, 
then “foldername” is that folder, otherwise it is the current folder.
Alias into “foldername”: An alias/shortcut for each of the items that you chose/selected using the “Select for 
Move/Alias” command will be created in the specified folder.  Note that this 
command changes depending on whether you clicked on a folder icon or not (as 
above).
Upload into “foldername”: Shows a window where you can choose a file or folder to upload into the 
specified folder on the server.  Note that this command changes depending on 
whether you clicked on a folder icon or not (as above).
Refresh Folder: Retrieves the list of files/items from the server again (use this to see changes).
Create Folder: Shows a window which allows you to create a new folder inside the current 
folder.   See the topic “Create Folder Window” further ahead in this 
documentation.
Delete: Delete the selected items.  Note that this command does work with multiple items 
at once.  Items are deleted on the server by moving them to the Recycle Bin (MS 
Windows) or the Trash (MacOS).
Window Menu:
Refresh: Retrieves the list of files/items from the server again (use this to see changes).
Upload: Shows a window where you can choose a file or folder to upload into the 
current folder on the server.
Create Folder: Shows a window which allows you to create a new folder inside the current 
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 7 of 32

--- Page 8 ---
folder.   See the topic “Create Folder Window” further ahead in this 
documentation.
Search: Allows you to search for items on the server.  You can type in part of the file or 
folder name, and it will show you a list of all items on the server that contain 
that text in their name.  This feature is extremely fast because it does not search 
the real files, instead it searches a catalog that has been generated from the files.
Save Window Location/Size: Saves the location/width/height of the window, the size of the panes, the width 
of the columns, the order of the columns, and which column is selected.  Any 
Files windows created in future will use these settings.
Create Folder Window
This window is used to create a new folder inside another folder.
Name: Type a name for the new folder.
Inside: The parent folder in which the new folder will be created.
Uploads Folder: If ticked, this will create a special “Uploads” folder.  Users are allowed to upload 
files/folders to “Uploads” folders, but usually not elsewhere (depending on their access 
privileges).  “Uploads” folder are also denoted in the file list with a different icon.
NOTE:
  It is NOT necessary to create Uploads folders inside Uploads folders.  Any 
folders inside an Uploads folder automatically inherit the upload ability.
Drop Box: If ticked, this will create a special “Drop Box” folder.  Users are allowed to upload 
files/folders to “Drop Box” folders, but they cannot see or download the contents of the 
folder, unless they have access.
DB owner login: If this is empty, then the only people who can see inside the drop box are those who 
have the “Can View All Drop Boxes” access privilege.  Alternatively, if you type the 
login of an account here, then anyone using that account will be able to see inside this 
drop box.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 8 of 32

--- Page 9 ---
Address Book Window
This window provides you with an easy way to record all the information about the servers that you regularly 
visit.  Each Address Book item (or “bookmark”) includes the name and address of a server, your login and 
password, comments, and other details.  Second-click in the list to show a context menu with these commands:
New: Shows a window where you can type in the information for a new Address Book item.
Edit: Use this to edit/modify or just view the information in the selected Address Book item.
Connect: Use this to connect to the selected server.  You can simply single click an item to 
connect to it, but if you use this command, you can temporarily modify the information 
before it connects.
Delete: Remove the selected item from the Address Book.
When you make a new Address Book item, or edit an existing one, you will see that there are also options to 
shows various windows when you connect to that server.  There is also a “Connect At Startup” option, which 
means that KDX Client will automatically attempt to connect to that server when KDX Client is opened.
The “Encrypt File Transfers” option can be used to disable encryption for file transfers .  This is useful if your 
computer has insufficient power to encrypt and transfer at the full speed of your high-speed LAN.  Obviously, 
disabling encryption will decrease your security if other people have access to the LAN.  Note that only the 
actual file data is unencrypted, everything else remains encrypted.
Do NOT disable encryption for file transfers over the Internet.  Practically every computer (except real 
dinosaurs) has power to encrypt at speeds well in excess of typical or even high Internet speeds.  The option to 
disable encryption is ONLY useful for Local Area Network (LAN) transfers.  You must enable/disable 
encryption BEFORE connecting.  After you connect, changing the setting has no effect (until you reconnect).  
Also, you will not be allowed to disable encryption has you have the “Can Disable Encryption” access 
privilege.
You can type directly into the Address Book window in order to filter it.  A text box will appear, and then all 
Address Book items will be hidden except for those that contain the word you typed.  This is very useful for 
quickly finding an item amongst many.
If you scroll right, you can see a “Connects” column, which shows the number of times you have connected to 
that server.  If you click on this column to sort by it, then the servers you visit most often will be at the top.  
There is also a “Last Connect” date/time column, which is useful for checking what servers you've been 
neglecting.
File Transfers Window
This window lists all the files and folders that you are uploading or downloading (transferring), and their 
progress and status.  Second-click an item to show a context menu with these commands:
Start: Starts a transfer that has been stopped.  The transfer will automatically resume from the 
point at where it stopped.  You can also execute this command by selecting an item and 
hitting the Return or Enter key.
Stop: Stops a transfer (but does not remove it from the list).  You can later start it again using 
the Start command.  Transferred data is NOT lost when you stop a transfer.  You can 
also execute this command by selecting an item and then hitting the Escape key or the 
Period (‘.’) key.
Re-queue: If a transfer is stopped, you can use this to “reactivate” it, but without actually starting it 
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 9 of 32

--- Page 10 ---
immediately.  It will be queued, and will start automatically when the items prior to it in 
the queue are done.
Show Local File: Show the local copy of the file using Windows Explorer or the Finder (MacOS).  You 
can also execute this command by double-clicking an item in the list.
Open Local File: Open the local file as if you had opened it using Windows Explorer or the Finder 
(MacOS).
Move To Top (etc): Use these commands for reordering items in the queue.  You can also execute these 
commands by selecting an item and hitting the Control (Command) key with the Up or 
Down arrow keys.
Remove Item: Remove the item from the list.  This does NOT delete the actual file on the disk, it only 
removes it from this file transfers list.  You can also execute this command by selecting 
an item and hitting the Delete key.
Window Menu:
Clear All Finished Transfers: Removes every finished transfer from the list.  This is very useful when you 
have many items in the list.  You can also execute this command by hitting 
Control-Delete (Command-Delete).
Open Downloads Folder: Open the folder where downloaded items are stored using Windows Explorer 
or the Finder (MacOS).
Private Messages Window
This window is used to conduct one-to-one private conversations with people (also known as “messaging”).  
Within this one single window, you can have multiple conversations occurring simultaneously.  Messages you 
send in this window are sent only to 1 person at a time (unlike Chat).  To use this window, you must first 
initiate a private message session by clicking a user in a user list to show a “Send Message” window, or by 
waiting until someone else sends you a message first.   Then the user will appear in the left pane of the 
window.  Each person that you are talking to will appear in the left pane.  In the bottom text box, you can type 
a message, and then hit the Return or Enter key to send it.  Note that you message will ONLY be sent to the 
selected user, NOT to every user (unlike Chat).  The big text box contains a transcript of your incoming and 
outgoing messages for the selected user.  If you wish to send a longer message to a user, you may prefer to 
double-click the user in the left pane -- this will cause a “Send Message” window to appear.
The WonderLight™ on the main Button Bar window will blink when you receive a message, if the Messages 
window is hidden or not at the front.  You can click the button or send a message to stop it blinking.  Note that 
the colored vertical bar to the left of each users icon has a DIFFERENT purpose in this window.  The bar 
changes to RED when that user sends you a message, if that user is not already selected.  It changes back to 
BLACK when you click on that user.  In this way, you can quickly see with a glance which users have sent 
you messages that you have not read yet.
A user (or rather the users messages) can be removed from this window by second-clicking the user, and then 
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 10 of 32

--- Page 11 ---
choosing the “Delete Messages” command.
User Info Window
This window shows general information about a single user.
Account Name: The name of the account that the user used when connecting to the server.
Account Login: The login of the account that the user used when connecting to the server.
Account Class: The class of the account that the user used when connecting to the server.
Login time: The date and time at which the user logged into / connected to the server.  The time in 
brackets is the duration of time from the displayed time until the time at which the 
window was shown or last refreshed, in DD:HH:MM:SS format.
Idle since: The date and time at which the user last did something at the server.  For example, 
whenever the user sends a message or participates in chat, this time is reset to the 
present.  The time in brackets is the duration of time from the displayed time until the 
time at which the window was shown or last refreshed, in DD:HH:MM:SS format.
Address: The address of the user, including port number.
Scrolling list box: This contains a list of all the file transfers that the user is conducting.  Second-click a 
transfer to show the path to that file (beginning at the users base folder).  From left to 
right, the displayed numbers are the transfer speed, the size transferred, the total size of 
the file, and the estimated time remaining (ETR) in DD:HH:MM:SS format.
Refresh: Click this button to refresh the information in the window (retrieve the most recent 
information from the server).
Invite To Chat Window
This windows allows you to send a chat invitation to other users.  A window appears on the screen of the other 
users, inviting them to join the specified chat.  They can then accept or ignore the invitation.  You can include a 
message with your invitation -- type this in the box provided.  Note that you can invite multiple users at once.  
Simply click on each user that you wish to invite.  All of the selected users will be invited when you click the 
“Invite” button.  Users who are already in the chat do not appear in the list.
Disconnect User Window
This window allows you to disconnect and optionally ban a user.  This will remove the user from the server.  
If the user is additionally banned, the user will not be allowed to reconnect to the server.
Message: Here you can type a message that will appear on the users screen with the notification 
that they have been disconnected.  For example, you might type the reason why you are 
disconnecting the user.  Note that this message will NOT appear if you use the “Force 
Disconnect” command.
Ban menu: Here you can select whether to ban the user, and for what duration of time.  When a 
user is banned, he/she is prevented from connecting to the server again.  Please note 
that due to the nature of the Internet, bans can sometimes be circumvented, however it 
will still cause inconvenience to the person being banned.
Disconnect: Sends your message to the user, and then disconnects the user.  There may be a short 
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 11 of 32

--- Page 12 ---
delay while the message is being transmitted.  If this bothers you, you can use “Force 
Disconnect” instead.
Force Disconnect: Disconnects the user immediately, without attempting to send the message to the user.
KDX Settings Window
Identity Panel
The options on this panel control your appearance in user lists.  You can set your name, and a description to 
appear after your name.  “Foreground Color” controls the color that your text is drawn in, and “Background 
Color” controls the color that is behind/around/surrounding your text.  You can also choose an icon to be 
displayed next to your name.  This icon can be ANYTHING, you are not limited to a certain selection of icons.  
You can simply copy ANY icon that you desire to the clipboard, and then paste it into this box (second-click it 
to show a menu with the commands).  KDX user icons are always exactly 32x32 pixels.
More detailed icon instructions for MS Windows users:  First you need to copy the icon you want to the 
clipboard. Note if you simply select a file and hit control-C, Windows does not copy it's icon to the clipboard. 
You have to open a .BMP or other graphics file in a graphics program such as "Paint", then copy from there. If 
you want to copy something on the screen, you can hit the "Print Screen" key which causes Windows to copy 
the whole screen to the clipboard. You can then paste it into Paint and select a smaller area to copy. Once you 
have your icon on the clipboard, go into KDX, click Settings, click the box next to "Icon", then hit control-V to 
paste. 
General Settings Panel
Sound List:
KDX can play sounds when certain events occur.  These sounds are contained within “Sound List” files that 
have been created using the KDXSoundListEdit program (available from the Haxial website).  You can either 
create your own Sound List file, or you can download one that has already been made from the Haxial website, 
or other places.  To use Sound List files with KDX, create a folder named "Sound Lists" in the same folder as 
KDX Client (if it has not already been created), then put all your Sound List files into that folder. Then in 
KDX, click Settings, and the contents of the folder should appear in the popup menu titled "Sound List".
Sound Volume:
Drag the slider to control the volume at which sounds in the Sound List are played.  Left is silent, right is 
100%.
Auto-Sort Downloads Folder:
This option causes KDX to create sub-folders inside your Downloads folder with names such as “Images”, 
“Archives”, “Audio”, etc.  Files are automatically sorted into these sub-folders according to their file type.
Lists Require Double-Click:
Haxial is opposed to the abuse of mice, and therefore Haxial desires to reduce the number of clicks that mice 
are subjected to over the course of their lifetime.  Thus KDX allows you to simply click once in lists.  Why 
click twice when once will suffice?  However, if you are sadistic and enjoy clicking twice despite it being 
unnecessary, then you can enable this option.
Show Messages When In Background (MacOS):
Controls whether or not a window will popup to display messages when KDX is in the background.
Flash When Messages Received (MS Windows):
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 12 of 32

--- Page 13 ---
Controls whether the KDX item in the Start Bar will flash when messages are received when KDX is in the 
background.
Broadcasts Go To Messages Window:
If a semi-administrator is annoying you by broadcasting inane messages every minute, causing a window to 
popup on your screen every time, then you can enable this option which will cause the messages to be sent to 
your Private Messages window instead.
Regularly Ping Servers:
Causes KDX to regularly “ping” the server.  A ping is a small amount of data that is sent to the other computer, 
and the other computer acknowledges it by sending a “pong” in reply.  This is useful for resolving or testing 
certain network problems.  Do not enable this option unless you really need to.
Only One File Transfer Queue:
Normally, KDX has multiple file transfer queues.  The client gives each server 2 queues, a download queue, 
and an upload queue, both of which are independent of other servers.  However, analog/dial-up modem users 
may not appreciate this behavior, in which case they can use this option to cause there to be only the one file 
transfer queue across all servers.
Auto-Clear Finished Transfers:
If this option is on, when a transfer is finishes, it will be automatically removed from the File Transfers 
window after a short period of time.
Auto-Switch User List Window:
Causes the User List Window to automatically switch to display a server when you connect to it, and when 
someone joins a server (so you can easily see who it was who joined).
Small Button Bar:
Changes the button bar window to a smaller horizontal version, with only icons and no titles on the buttons.
More Settings Panel
Show Windows At Startup:
Tick which windows you would like to be automatically opened whenever you start/open KDX.
Enable DCC On Port:
DCC is Direct Client Connection.  If this is ticked, other people on the Internet can connect to you in order to 
communicate with you directly (without the need to use a server).  You can also change the port number, but 
do not change it unless you are an advanced user and you know what you are doing.
Configure UPnP Router for DCC:
If you are using a router to share your Internet access between multiple computers, then your router will 
probably need to be configure before people can connect to you for DCC.  KDX can do this automatically, but 
only if your router supports UPnP (Universal Plug and Play).  You can see the results of the attempted 
configuration by clicking the “UPnP Journal” button at any time.
Start KDX Hidden:
This option is useful if you have your computer configured to automatically start KDX when the computer 
starts (because you want KDX running all the time).
MS Windows: If this option is ticked, KDX will minimize itself immediately after being opened/started.  
You can restore it by clicking the KDX icon in the system tray (in the right bottom of the 
screen).
MacOS: If this option is ticked, KDX will hide itself immediately after being opened/started.  You can 
show it by bringing KDX to the front, as you would normally do for any Mac application.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 13 of 32

--- Page 14 ---
Appearance Panel
Appearance:
This lets you change the appearance of KDX to something that is more aesthetically pleasing to you.  Please 
note that more appearance options are available than shown in this menu — you can download more 
Appearance files (“.hap” files) from the Haxial website or other sources.  Place your “.hap” files into a folder 
named “Appearances” in the same folder as the KDX Client program, and then show the Settings window in 
KDX, and the contents of the Appearances menu will be replaced with the contents of the folder.  For more 
information, please visit this website:
http://www.haxialsoftware.com/appearance/
Use Small Icons In File Lists:
Controls whether small (16x16) or normal (32x32) sized icons are used in file lists.
Use Small Icons In User Lists:
Controls whether small (16x16) or normal (32x32) sized icons are used in user lists.
Save button: Applies all your changes, saves them, and closes the window.
Apply button: Applies all your changes, saves them, but does not close the window.  For example, you 
might use this to see how you look in the user list if you anticipate wanting to tweak it again 
immediately.
Cancel: Discards your changes and closes the window.
Voice Settings Panel
Input Device:
If you want to use the Voice Chat feature of KDX, you will need to select an input device, which is usually a 
microphone.  The input device listens to you speaking, and carries the sound into the computer for processing.  
If the menu is disabled, that means your computer has no input devices configured.
Output Device:
Use this to select where voice will be played.  Output devices are usually speakers.  Normally you should leave 
this on Default.
Transmit Only When Key Is Down:
If you tick this, and type a key into the box, then voice will only be transmitted to other people (they will only 
be able to hear you) when you are holding down that key.  When you release the key, they cannot hear you 
anymore, until you press it again.  This should work regardless of whether KDX is currently the frontmost 
program on your computer, although if other programs use the same key, you might have to choose a different 
key.  Note that you can second-click on the box to select more advanced key options.
Allow Volume Overdrive Up To 400%:
This option allows you to increase the volume of a person in a Voice Chat up to 400% (see notes on the Voice 
Information window), but 400% is very high and could be very loud, so you must be careful that you do not 
damage your speakers by setting the volume too high.  Also, overdriving the volume (increasing above 100%) 
may cause crunchy distortions.  Use at your own risk!
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 14 of 32

--- Page 15 ---
Get Server Info Window
Shows general information about the server.  The name and description that are shown can be changed using 
the “Server Settings” command.  Note that this window shows more information for administrators than it does 
for normal users.
Voice Controls Window
This window is used for controlling a voice chat/conversation that you have with other people.  You can think 
of it as an Internet telephone, where you can literally speak and listen to other people on the Internet.  
Obviously you will need a working microphone plugged into your computer if you wish to speak.  There is a 
list in the window which shows who you are voice chatting with.  First you need to connect to someone using 
DCC (Direct Client Connection).  Then you click the “Commands” button the main button bar window, then 
the person you connected to, then “Voice Chat”.  They should then appear in the Voice Controls window, and 
you can click “Start Microphone” and talk.
Voice Recording Light
Next to the Start/Stop Microphone button you can see the ubiquitous WonderLight™ which changes colors.
When it is gray, the microphone is off.
When it is red, the microphone is on/active, but it is detecting silence, so it is not sending the 
sound to other people.
When it is green, the microphone is on/active and it is has detected sound and it will send that 
sound to everyone who is listed in your Voice Controls window.  (If you have the transmit key 
option on, then it will only transmit if the key is held down, regardless of the green status.)
“Rate” Menu
This menu allows you to select at what quality KDX records and sends sound.  The higher the rate, the better 
the sound quality.  However, as you would expect, higher quality consumes more bandwidth, which your net 
connection may or may not be able to handle.   Each menu item has the amount of bandwidth it consumes in 
brackets after the rate.
For example, if you are on a regular 56K modem, then you will probably want to use 5512 Hz or 6000 Hz 
because the higher rates are more data than your modem can send.  If you are on a cable modem, the higher 
rates are of course fine.  Note this rate only affects how YOUR sound is recorded and sent to other people, it 
has no affect on how sound is received from other people.
“Latency” Menu
This is how many milliseconds KDX records for before it sends the data.  When using KDX to talk, ideally 
you want this value to be low.  However, your net connection may not be able to handle the lowest setting, 
causing your sound to break-up when it is received, making you difficult to understand.   If this happens, then 
you have to increase your latency and/or decrease your rate.
Note if someone starts talking while you are talking, please do NOT assume that they are being impolite and 
interrupting you.  The Internet has delays (also known as lag), and thus depending on network conditions and 
the quality of the connection between yourself and other people, there will be anywhere from a very small to a 
very large delay before what you say is received/heard by other people.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 15 of 32

--- Page 16 ---
Thus if someone starts talking while you are talking, it is probably because they could not hear you talking 
when they started talking.  ie they did not purposely interrupt you.  This is an irritating fact of Internet 
communications — KDX is only as good as the net connection between yourself and the other person, and 
there is not much KDX can do to improve that connection.
Note when you change the Latency, it is like the rate — it only affects how YOUR sound is recorded and sent 
to other people, it has no affect on how sound is received from other people.
“Sensitivity” Menu
If the recording light is constantly green even when you are not talking, that is very bad, because it means that 
KDX is sending data constantly, whereas for better performance, it should stop sending when you stop 
talking.  It is important that KDX stops transmitting audio when you stop talking because otherwise 
insignificant Internet delays will accumulate into multi-second delays.
What is "silence" depends on how much background noise there is in your room.  It is never completely silent, 
for example the computer generates some noise, or there may be noises outside.  Thus KDX allows you to 
adjust how sensitive it is to silence using the "Sensitivity" menu.   Higher numbers mean louder sounds will be 
treated as silence.
For example, 25 requires only little noise before it starts sending.   600 requires a much louder noise before it 
will send the sound, and anything quieter than a rating of 600 will be ignored.  You will know when KDX is 
sending because the recording light will change to green.
If the recording light is constantly green while you are not talking, try increasing the Sensitivity until it changes 
to red.  If you set it to the maximum and it is still green, then the amount of background noise is too loud.   Try 
decreasing the noise in the room, or moving the microphone further away from noise sources such as the 
computer, or getting a better quality microphone.
Your operating system may also have an option for configuring the "gain" on the microphone in one of its 
control panels.  You can try turning the gain down if the microphone is picking up too much noise.
Some cheap and nasty microphones (for example, a $5 or $10 microphone) record so much static and 
background noise that they cannot be used with the silence sensitivity option — even when you increase the 
silence sensitivity to very high levels, the recording light still flashes green even when you are not talking.  In 
this case, if you are not prepared to get a better microphone, you will probably have to resort to setting silence 
sensitivity to the minimum, and then pressing a key on the keyboard when you want to talk.  Tapping the 
spacebar on the keyboard is equivalent to clicking on the Start/Stop Microphone button, so you can use this 
when you wish to speak.  There is also a “Transmit Key” option in Settings that works even KDX is not at the 
front.
Voice Information Window
Click once on someone in the list at the bottom of the main KDX window to show a window like this:
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 16 of 32

--- Page 17 ---
Name: The name of the person as entered in their Settings window.
Address: The IP Address of the computer including the port number.  This is selectable so you can 
copy it to the clipboard.
Login: If the person connected to you, this is the login that they used.  You should be able to find 
this in your Address Book.
Rate: What rate the person is using to send sound.
Latency: What latency the person is using to send sound.
Data Sent: The number of bytes of sound data you have sent to this person.
Received: The number of bytes of sound data you have received from this person.
Volume: Drag the slider (or click a point in it) to change how loud this person’s sound is played.  Drag 
left to decrease the volume, or right to increase the volume.  100% means full volume (no 
change is applied to loudness of the sound).  The volume can be overdriven (set greater than 
100%) which is useful to boost a person who is talking too quietly or who is too far away 
from their microphone
Disconnect: Click this to disconnect the person.  They will be removed from the list in the main window 
and will not be able to hear what you say or talk to you anymore.  This is like hanging up the 
telephone.
Close: Click this to close the window.
Microphones
KDX works better if you have a good microphone.  When KDX is recording and it detects silence or near-
silence, it stops sending data, which improves performance.   However, some really cheap microphones record 
a lot of background noise, which sounds like a constant hiss or hum even when no-one is talking.   If this 
background noise is too loud, KDX will not be able to distinguish it from normal talking, in which case it will 
be constantly sending all the time, which will degrade your performance.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 17 of 32

--- Page 18 ---
Microphones that are built-in to the computer will work with KDX, but they are not very good because they 
pick up the noise of the computers internals.  A proper external microphone is better.
For best results, use headphones when using KDX.  If you hear yourself echoing, it is because your voice is 
being sent to the other person, being played on their computer speakers, then their microphone is hearing the 
speakers, recording your voice and sending it back to you.  The solution is to use headphones which stops 
your microphone from hearing and recording the other persons voice (so if you are echoing, the OTHER 
person needs to wear headphones).
Voice Conference Calls
KDX allows you to have a 3-way (or more) conversation.  You are not limited to talking to one person at a 
time, you can connect to multiple people and have a conference call.  You can connect to as many people as you 
like provided that you have the bandwidth to support it.
The list at the bottom of the KDX window shows who you are connected to.  If you do not see someone in that 
list, then you cannot talk or listen to that person.   For example, if you hear Joe talking to Fred but you cannot 
hear what Fred says, it is probably because you are not connected to Fred (but Joe is).
So in order for everyone in the conversation to hear everyone else, they must connect to everyone else.  It is 
not sufficient to connect to only 1 member of the conversation.
Voice Troubleshooting
I’m speaking but the other person cannot hear me.
Check that your microphone is working by using another program.  On Windows, you can use the program 
“Sound Recorder” that comes with Windows (look in the Start menu under “Accessories” then 
"Entertainment").  On Mac, you can use SimpleText, which has a “Record” command under its “Sound” menu.  
If you cannot record sound in that program, then of course you are not going to be able to record your voice in 
KDX either.
Check that you have clicked “Start Microphone”, and that you have selected the correct recording device in the 
“Input Device” menu (if you do not know which, try each one until you find the one that works).  If KDX 
detects sound, the light next to the “Start Microphone” button will change to green.  If it is red, it is detecting 
silence.
I can’t hear the other person properly because the sound is breaking up.
The internet connection is not fast enough.  Ask the other person to reduce
 his/her rate, and/or increase his/her 
latency (in the “Rate” and “Latency” menus).
The longer I talk with someone, the more the delay increases before I hear the other person
Check the “Sensitivity” setting (see the “Sensitivity” section in this documentation).  It is important that the 
Sensitivity be set correctly because if a person is transmitting constantly, the delay will accumulate over time, 
making the connection worse and worse.  For best performance, every person in the conversation should check 
that their recording light is changing to red when they stop talking.
There is a delay before the other person hears what I said.
First check the “Sensitivity” setting (see the “Sensitivity” section in this documentation).  It is important that the 
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 18 of 32

--- Page 19 ---
Sensitivity be set correctly, otherwise delays will be increased.  If fixing your Sensitivity setting does not 
eliminate the delay, then your internet connection is not fast enough.  You can try reducing the Latency, which 
will also reduce the delay.  Although if you reduce it too much, your internet connection might not be able to 
handle it and the sound will break up.  You have to find a balance.
I can hear myself echoing.
For best results, use headphones when using KDX.  If you hear yourself echoing, it is because your voice is 
being sent to the other person, being played on their computer speakers, then their microphone is hearing the 
speakers, recording your voice and sending it back to you.  The solution is to use headphones which stops 
your microphone from hearing and recording the other persons voice (so if you are echoing, the OTHER 
person needs to wear headphones).
I can hear someone talking to someone else that I can’t hear.
The list at the bottom of the KDX window shows who you are connected to.  If you do not see someone in that 
list, then you cannot talk or listen to that person.   For example, if you hear Joe talking to Fred but you cannot 
hear what Fred says, it is probably because you are not connected to Fred (but Joe is).  So in order for 
everyone in the conversation to hear everyone else, they must connect to everyone else.  It is not sufficient to 
connect to only 1 member of the conversation.
I can hear background noise / hiss / hum / buzzing.
Please see the section “Microphones” above in this documentation.
Accounts Window
This window shows a list of all the Accounts that are on your server.  An Account is a piece of information 
stored at a server that specifies the name, login, password, access privileges and other details of a person who 
is permitted to connect to the server.  The most important function of an Account is to control who can do what 
on your server -- access control.  For example, you probably do not want everyone on your server being able 
to delete files.  Thus you would use Accounts to control who can delete files and who cannot by turning on or 
off the “Can Delete Files/Folders” access privilege in certain Accounts.
KDX also has the concept of “Account Classes”.  It is important to understand what Account Classes are.  
First, let us consider what life would be like WITHOUT Account Classes.  Say after some time, you have 
created 250 accounts on your server.  One day, you decide that you are sick of people bothering you with silly 
little messages, and so you want to take away the “Can Send Messages” access privilege from 150 of your 
users.  This means you have to manually and individually open each one of those 150 accounts, and turn off 
the “Can Send Messages” access privilege.  HOWEVER, with Account Classes, this problem goes away!  
Account Classes allow you to make broad sweeping changes to whole classes of users all in one foul swoop.  
If those 150 users are in an Account Class called “Potentially Bothersome Users”, then you need only open this 
class, turn on or off the desired privileges for this class, and the change is applied to EVERY account that uses 
that class.
This is how it works:  Each Account must belong to a certain Class.   Each Class has a set of access privilege 
settings, and so does each Account. By default, the access privileges in an Account are ignored, and the 
privileges in the Class are used instead.  But if you want an Account to be slightly different to a Class, then you 
can specify that certain privileges in that Account OVERRIDE the same privileges in the Class.  So for 
example, you might say that Account “John” has the same privileges as Class “Users”, except with the addition 
(or subtraction) of the “Can Move Files/Folders” privilege.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 19 of 32

--- Page 20 ---
When you click the “Create Account” button, or click an existing account to edit it, you can switch to the 
“Access Privileges” panel in the window that appears.  Notice there is a big list of everything that the account 
can or cannot do.  Notice that there are 2 sets of tick boxes.  The disabled right set of tick boxes is a copy of the 
ticks for the Class that this Account belongs to (just for your reference — it shows you what privileges are 
on/off in the Class).  The enabled left set of tick boxes is for this Account only.
These tick boxes have 3 states:  On (Ticked), Off (Blank), and No Change (Dash).   On and Off are self-
explanatory.   No Change (Dash) means that this privilege should use whatever is set in the Class.  The final 
resulting ACTUAL access for the account is indicated by the color of the text (normal meaning the end result is 
that the privilege will be ON, and dimmed meaning the end result is that the privilege will be OFF).
When looking at the list of accounts, you can see at a glance which accounts have more or less access than the 
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 20 of 32

--- Page 21 ---
class they belong to (thanks to the SpifferrificOverridesIndicator™ feature).  If you see a “+” in front of the 
class name for an account, it means that the account has MORE access than the class.  “-” means the account 
has LESS access than the class.  “+/-” means the account has both enabled and disabled privileges which 
override the class.
Folder Access
KDX Server includes a Folder Access feature which allows you to set access privileges on an individual per-
folder basis.  Find it in “Commands” -> Your Server -> “Folder Access”.  The way it works is that you create 
Folder Access Items, where each item contains a set of access privileges (can be different for each Account 
Class).  You can then link any folder(s) with a Folder Access Item, and then any attempts to access that 
folder(s) will be restricted according to what is specified in the linked Folder Access item.
To link a folder with a Folder Access Item, you put the name of the item in square brackets at the end of the 
folder name.  For example, if a folder is named “My Folder [blah]”, then it uses the Folder Access Item named 
“blah”.  Although if you are creating a folder using the “Create Folder” command in KDX, it shows a popup 
menu where you can simply select which Folder Access Item to use (if any), and then there is no need to type 
the [] yourself.
You can have many folders all linked to the 1 Folder Access Item, and then if you change that item, it is 
automatically and instantly applied to every folder that uses it.  This avoids the need for micro-management and 
makes it much easier to administer the privileges for a large number of folders.
Folder Access can also be used to hide a folder from certain classes of users, as well as making it inaccessible.  
Thus you can use the Folder Access feature to simplify your file hierarchy -- you might use it instead of 
multiple base folders and aliases/shortcuts (which potentially increase the size of your catalog and create 
troublesome loops).
When you make a new KDX Server, it creates a few default Folder Access Items, which you can leave as they 
are or modify:
“[Default]”: If a folder specifies no Folder Access Item, then it uses whichever the parent folder uses (or 
the parents parent etc), but if none of the parents specify a Folder Access Item, then it uses 
this Default Folder Access Item.  Unless you change it, this is configured to only allow the 
administrator full access, and everyone else is read-only.
“UL”: Makes an “Uploads” folder into which anyone can upload files, and download, but only the 
administrator can delete files.
“DB”: Makes a “Dropbox” folder into which anyone can upload files, but NOT download or see 
the contents.  Only the administrator or owner of the dropbox can download and see what is 
inside, or delete files.  When you create a folder using KDX, you are given the option to 
choose a user who is to be the owner of the dropbox (you might create a dropbox for each 
of your users, thus giving them a way to receive files privately without making them 
available to everyone on the server).
If you think you have set all the access privileges correctly but your users keep seeing an “Access Denied. (ID 
1/20)” error when they try to do something file-related, then check the access privileges in:
(a) their Account Class,
(b) their Account, and
(c) whichever Folder Access Item is being used for the folder that the users are trying to access.
You will notice that Accounts and Classes have file-related access privileges which seem to duplicate those in 
Folder Access.  The privileges in Accounts and Classes act as “master switches”.  For example, if you turn off 
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 21 of 32

--- Page 22 ---
“Can Delete Files/Folders” in the Account, then the user cannot delete files/folders ANYWHERE, regardless of 
the “Can Delete Items” privilege in any Folder Access Items.  In other words, if EITHER privilege is off (in the 
Account or in the Folder Access) then access will be denied (access is only allowed when they are BOTH on).
Flood Protection
KDX Server includes protection against “flooding” attacks.  “Flooding” is where an attacker bombards the 
server with a constant stream of commands in an attempt to make it slow it to a crawl and become unusable.  
Provided that flood protection is enabled, if the server notices a user requesting an excessive number of 
commands, it will warn the user to stop, and if the user persists, the server will automatically disconnect and 
ban the user.
It is impossible to detect flooding with 100% accuracy.  Sometimes legitimate activity can look like flooding, 
which is why the user is warned first.  Flood protection can be configured for each Account Class -- open an 
Account Class and you will see the “Flood Protection” menu where you can choose how strict or relaxed the 
flood protection will be.  You probably should not set it to “Very Strict” for all users because if you do that, a 
legitimate user might be mistakenly identified as attacking the server.  Generally speaking, the less you trust a 
user, the more strict the flood protection should be.
KDX Server also protects against connection flooding attacks, where the attacker bombards the server with a 
constant steam of attempts to connect to the server (as opposed to requests after establishing a connection).  
This sort of attack is sometimes called “Denial of Service” but that terminology is often used inaccurately.  If an 
IP address is observed to be connecting with excessive frequency, KDX Server bans it.
Editing/Creating Chat “Rooms”
KDX Server supports multiple chats (chat “rooms”).  To edit or create chats, click the Chat button, then 
second-click in the Chat List to show the Context Menu.  The options are as follows:
Name
: The name of the chat room, appears in the Chat List.
Description: A short descriptive comment about the chat, appears in the Chat List.
Voice Chat: If you tick this, then the chat becomes a voice-enabled chat, meaning if you join that 
chat, KDX will automatically try to DCC connect you to everyone else in the chat, 
and add them to your Voice Controls window.  The chat can still continue to be used 
for text chat as well as voice.
Interview Mode
: If ticked, then join, leave, disconnect, and name change messages will not be shown 
in that chat.  Good for special moderated chat events.
Make IRC Gateway: IRC (Internet Relay Chat) is a type of text chat service available on the Internet.  
This feature allows a KDX chat room to become a gateway/portal to an IRC chat 
room, allowing KDX and IRC users to communicate.  To use this feature, you must 
supply BOTH the address of an IRC server and an IRC channel, the contents of 
which will appear in the KDX chat.
Access
: Controls which Account Classes can see the chat room and which can send text to 
the chat room, etc.
Temporary private chats can also be created from the Context Menu in the Chat List.  You can use this if you 
want to have a quick 3-way (or more) conversation.  The chat room will automatically disappear when it is 
empty.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 22 of 32

--- Page 23 ---
Server History Window
This window chronologically records what events have occurred on your server.  Every time something 
happens on the server, a line is added to this history.  The window updates automatically (no need to refresh).   
Note that you can scroll horizontally to see more information/columns.  This information can optionally be 
recorded to journal/log files.  You can enable this in the Server Settings window.
Connection Monitor Window
This window lists all the connections on your server, and their status.  For example, you can use this to see all 
file transfers at once.  The window does not update automatically, but it does have an option to automatically 
refresh every X seconds (see the Window Menu).  A user can appear multiple times in this window if the user 
has multiple connections to the server (the window lists connections, not users, not transfers, but connections).   
For example, if a user is connected, downloading a file, and viewing the display, then you will see 3 
connections for that user.
Process Monitor Window
This window lists the processes (running programs) that are running on the server computer.  You can also 
exit/terminate/restart processes by second-clicking to show the Context Menu.  Exiting a process means that 
KDX Server politely asks that process to exit (giving it a chance to save any data etc).   Terminate means that 
KDX Server attempts to very nastily assassinate the target process, without giving it an opportunity to do 
anything further (useful for forcing errant processes to die).  Terminating may cause unsaved data to be lost, so 
use it only has a last resort.
Windows 95/98/ME:
The "Used Memory" and "Launch Time" columns are empty.  This information is not available on Windows 
95/98/ME.  It does work correctly in Windows XP/NT5.  Also, the list of processes does not update 
automatically — use the Refresh command instead.
Windows NT4:
The Processes list may be empty because NT4 does not properly support this feature.  It does work correctly in 
Windows XP/NT5.  Also, the list of processes does not update automatically — use the Refresh command 
instead.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 23 of 32

--- Page 24 ---
Windows XP/NT5:
Everything should work, although the list of processes does not update automatically — use the Refresh 
command instead.
MacOS 9.x:
The "Terminate Process" command only requests the process to exit (same as the "Exit Process" command) 
because MacOS 9 does not provide a method for a program (KDX Server) to force a process to terminate.
The list of processes updates automatically, there is no need to use the Refresh command.
MacOS 10.x:
The "Terminate Process" command only requests the process to exit (same as the "Exit Process" command) 
because Haxial does not know of any way to make MacOS X terminate a process.  Also, the memory 
information may be missing.  MacOS 9 does supply this information, but unfortunately MacOS X fails to do 
so.
The list of processes updates automatically, there is no need to use the Refresh command.
 
View/Control Display Window
This shows you an automatically updating copy of what is on the display/screen/monitor of the server 
computer.   You can also click and type in it to remotely control the server computer.
MacOS:
  If you are using a MacOS client to remote-control a MS Windows server, and your Mac has only 1 
mouse button, then you can emulate the second mouse button by holding when the Command key when 
clicking.
Server Settings Window
Note that the Server Settings window is actually accessed via the CLIENT.  This is so that you can remotely 
change the servers settings.
General Settings Panel
Server Name:
The name of your server.  This will appear in Trackers (if you register your server with Trackers), and in the 
“Get Server Info” window, and in the “Add To Address Book” command.
Description:
A short description of your server.  This will appear in the same places as the server name.
Address:
Here you can type the DNS address of your server, if you server has one.   If you server does not have a DNS 
address, leave this box empty.  Any address you type here will show in the “Get Server Info” command, and 
in the “Add To Address Book” command.  This is useful for making sure that users save the DNS address of 
your server into their Address Book, rather than a temporary or dynamic IP/numeric address that may become 
invalid after a while.
If you configured your server to use a non-standard port number, you will need to include it in the address 
here.  For example, if your DNS address is mydnsaddress.com and the port number is 1234, then in this box 
you would type:   mydnsaddress.com:1234
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 24 of 32

--- Page 25 ---
Server Icon:
Here you can paste a Server Icon that will be displayed at the top of the main Button Bar window when you 
server is selected.  It must be no more than 152x40 pixels.  Second-click to show a menu with commands.
Total Outgoing Speed Limit:
If enabled, this option will cause file downloads to be speed limited.  For example, if you put 100 KB/sec here, 
then if 4 people are downloading, they will be limited to 25 KB/sec each (100 divided by 4 is 25).
Greeting Panel
Here you can type a greeting message that will shown to everyone when they connect to the server (unless they 
have the “Don’t Show Greeting” access privilege).
Port Numbers Panel
Port Number:
The main port number of your server.  Port numbers are generally used to distinguish between the different 
services/programs that may be running on a computer. You can think of this like a block of apartments/units 
which all have the same street address, so in order to distinguish between the different apartments, you write an 
address like: Apartment 5, 12 Main Street.  Every program on the computer that uses a port number must be 
given a unique port number.  For example, if you wanted to run 2 copies of KDX Server on the 1 computer for 
some reason, you would have to change the port on one of them.  Or if another program on the computer 
happened to use the same number as KDX Server, again you would have to change one of them.
The default/standard port number for KDX Server is 10700.  Please note that if you change this, you and your 
users will have to use a slightly modified address to connect to your server.  If you were connecting with the 
address “1.2.3.4” before, but you changed the port to 8888, now you will have to connect using 
“1.2.3.4:8888”.  Actually, every address requires a port number, but in some cases you can omit it, and then 
the default is used.
Alternate Port Number:
Normally, you should leave this empty, but you might want to use it in some special circumstances.  An 
alternate port number means that the server will listen for incoming connections on BOTH port numbers 
(people can connect to the server using either port number).  This is useful if certain users of your server have 
problems with certain port numbers due to faults or restrictions at the ISP, or if you have decided to change the 
port number of your server and you would like the old port to remain functional for a period of time until 
everyone has switched to the new.
File Transfer Port Number:
Normally, you should leave this empty, and then file transfers (downloads and uploads) are conducted on the 
same port as above (the main “Port Number” box).  In some special circumstances, you might want to use a 
different port number for file transfers.  For example, if you are using a net speed limiting program and you 
want to limit only the file transfers, without making chat and everything else slow (so you can configure your 
speed limiting program to limit the file transfers port, but not the main port).
Allow/Deny Addresses Panel
You can use this panel to prevent certain IP addresses or ranges of IP addresses from connecting to your 
server.  For example, if you want to stop anyone from 123.200.300.XXX (where XXX is anything) from 
connecting to your server, then add a new Deny address of “123.200.300.*”.  The asterisk (*) is a wildcard, it 
means match anything in that place.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 25 of 32

--- Page 26 ---
You can also do more complicated things.  For example, if you wanted to deny all of 123.200.300.* except for 
123.200.300.15, then you can create an Allow address of 123.200.300.15 FOLLOWED by a Deny address of 
123.200.300.* because the rules are applied from top to bottom, and the first rule that matches is the one that is 
used.  Second-click on an item if you want to reorder it.
Items can also be set to automatically expire.  When an item expires, it is removed from the list.  When you use 
the Disconnect User window, and you select a ban duration, the ban will be added to this panel with an expiry 
time.  There is often no point in banning an address forever because the ISPs that people use change addresses 
from time to time, or sometimes they change the address of their customers every time they connect to the 
Internet.
Server History Panel
This panel gives you the option of recording the Server History (as in the Server History window) to disk in 
the form of journal/log files.  These files are created in the folder “History” in the same folder as the KDX 
Server program.  They are in tabbed text file format, which means that you can open them in a spreadsheet 
program such as Excel.
Trackers Panel
Use this panel if you want to register your server with a KDX Tracker.  Trackers help users find your server.  
They are like a directory or a phone book.  When you click the “Add Tracker” button, you will see a window 
with a number of text boxes:
Name: The name of the tracker.  This is only for your own information.
Comments: Any comments for your own information.
Address: The address of the tracker.
Login: Leave blank unless you have an account on the tracker.
Password: Leave blank unless you have an account on the tracker.
Groups: Trackers organize servers into groups.   Here you can choose which groups you would like 
your server to be included in.  Type the name of each group (EXACTLY), with ONE group 
PER LINE (press return/enter at the end of each group).  You can type up to 6 groups.
Broadcast Message Window
Use this if you wish to send an important message to EVERYONE on the server.  This can be somewhat 
obnoxious if it is overused, so only use it judiciously.
Catalog Generation
The Files window in KDX has a Search command which provides extremely fast searching of the items on the 
server.  This feature is extremely fast because it does not search the real files, instead it searches a catalog that 
has been generated from the files.  The Administrator of the server must use the Administration -> “Generate 
Catalog” command before the Search feature will work.  The Administrator must also regularly generate the 
catalog again in order to keep it up to date.
Please note that catalog generation will fail if your files contain any alias/shortcut loops.  An alias loop is where 
if you keep following the folders, you will go around in circles forever. For example, folder A contains a 
folder B, which contains an alias/shortcut C that points to folder A.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 26 of 32

--- Page 27 ---
Shutdown Server Window
This window allows you to remotely shutdown the server.  You can also type a message that will be sent to 
everyone before the server is shutdown (for example, to explain the reason why you are shutting down the 
server).  You can simply cause the KDX Server program to exit, or you can restart or shutdown the whole 
computer.
Upgrade Server Software
To upgrade the server software remotely:
1. Switch on the "Can See All Bases" access privilege in your account.
2. Upload the new server program to the Bases folder.
3. Both the currently running copy AND the new copy of the server program MUST be named EXACTLY 
"KDXServer.exe" (MS Windows) or "KDXServer" (MacOS).
4. The "KDXUpgradeHelper" program MUST be present in the same folder as the currently running copy of 
the server program.
5. Click the Upgrade button here and wait 5 seconds, and then it should be done and you can reconnect to 
your server.
6. Use the "Get Server Info" command to verify the version number.
7. The old server program will have been deleted and the new one moved in to replace it.
Setting up KDX Server
Run the server program, and the first time you run it, it will ask you for a login and password to use for your 
administrator account. Enter the login and password that you would like to use, then click OK. The server is 
now running. Put the files that you want to share into the folder "Default" inside the folder "Bases" which is in 
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 27 of 32

--- Page 28 ---
the same folder as the KDX Server program. Now open KDX Client, click Connect, enter the address of your 
server (you can enter an address of 0 to connect to a server on the same computer), as well as the login and 
password that you chose previously. You are now connected to your server using the administrator account 
which has full access. Other people should be able to connect to your server using guest access by leaving the 
login and password blank (unless you disabled guest access). Or you can create accounts by going to 
"Administration" then "Accounts" in KDX Client. 
Note that nearly all configuration of KDX Server is done using KDX Client.  The reason for this is so that 
KDX Server can be configured remotely.  The Server does have a few options which can be configured 
locally, but nearly everything must be done by connecting to your server using KDX Client.
Tips and Tricks
Multiple Connections
KDX Client has the ability to be connected to multiple servers simultaneously.  This happens automatically if 
you connect to another server without disconnecting from the first.  When you are connected to multiple 
servers, you will need to look at the user interface to determine which server your actions will affect (for 
example, the server name may be displayed in the title bar of the window, or somewhere inside that window).
Times
Unless specified otherwise, all dates and times shown in KDX are converted to your local time (the local time 
of the computer that is running KDX Client).  KDX automatically takes into account the time zone of each 
person or server and makes adjustments accordingly.
Resizing Panes
A number of windows in KDX are divided into “panes” (as in window panes :).  This panes can be resized by 
dragging the horizontal or vertical bar that separates them.
Resizing/Reordering Columns
If you are using a list with columns, you can click and drag the line between the column headers (at the top) to 
resize the width of the column that appears to the left.  You can also second-click a column to show a menu 
which allows you to reorder the column.  Clicking normally on a column header causes the list to be sorted 
according to the information in that column.
Save Window Location/Size
This command appears in the Window Menu of a number of windows in KDX.  Move the window to your 
desired location, and resize it to your desired size, then use this command, then in future, the window will 
appear at that location at with that size.  Depending on the window, it may also save other settings such as the 
size of panels, or the configuration of columns in lists.
Copying Non-Selectable Text
In many windows, you can second-click on a non-editable non-selectable text item, and a context menu will 
appear, giving you the option to copy that text to the clipboard.
Window Switcher
Hit the F1 key or control-shift-W (command-shift-W) to show a popup menu with a list of all windows in the 
program.  Click a window to bring it to the front.  Or use the arrow keys and then return/enter.
Any questions/suggestions/feedback?
Your feedback and suggestions are welcomed.  Feel free to send a message to Haxial using the form on this 
webpage:
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 28 of 32

--- Page 29 ---
http://www.haxialsoftware.com/contact/
Please support the development of KDX
Please support the further development of KDX by purchasing a license.  As you can see by the full version 
history on the website (http://www.haxial.com/products/kdx/kdx-vh.html), an enormous amount of effort has 
gone into creating KDX.  Hopefully enough people will appreciate this effort and purchase a license for KDX 
to help fund further development.   You can purchase a KDX license at:
http://www.haxialsoftware.com/shop/
Thank you!
Glossary
Access Privilege
The right to obtain or make use of or take advantage of something, or the right to enter. In the case of 
computers, it is the operation of reading or writing stored information from one place to another. A server 
granting an account to a client user is giving that user access privileges to the server.
Account
A piece of information stored at a server that specifies the name, login, password, access privileges and other 
details of a person who is permitted to connect to the server.
Account Class
A specific grouping of users into "classes." May be customized or standard. Examples are: Administrator, 
User, Member, and Guest.
Different privileges may be assigned to each class, and standardized so that the making of accounts becomes a 
simple matter of assigning the user to a "class."
Address
1. DNS Address - Domain Name System Address - The registered name of a particular address on the Internet. 
Many are known as world wide web addresses, but some are also used in the place of dynamic and static IP 
addresses or IP numbers. Instead of using the IP address (example: 255.55.xx.xx), a DNS address used for 
KDX might be: somebody.server.haxial.org - which is much easier to remember and type into a bookmark 
than an IP number.
2. Email Address - A  system of world-wide electronic communication in which a computer user can compose 
a message at one computer terminal that is generated at the recipient's terminal when he logs in.
3. IP Address - a series of numbers used as individual computer or server addresses, and recognized on the 
world wide web as such, and quickly routes one computer to another via the IP (Internet protocol) address. An 
example of an internal network address is 192.168.42.02. An example of a www IP address is: 127.34.00.00.
Administrator
An "Administrator" of a server is a person who has complete access or more access than usual to the server.  
For example, the owner of the server is usually the primary Administrator, unless the owner employs someone 
else to administrate his/her server.  There may be multiple Administrators per server.  The job of an 
Administrator is generally to maintain and/or moderate the server.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 29 of 32

--- Page 30 ---
Alias
A/K/A Shortcut (by Windows users), aliased folders are empty copies of folders that are located elsewhere, but 
aliased in order to create a file path to the originating folder,  so that the client may click the alias, view the 
contents, and either download from it, or upload to it.
Ban
A prohibition or or forbidding of something or someone. A server may ban a KDX client user from entry, even 
though access privileges had been granted before. Users are banned from servers for numerous reasons, 
including excessively pinging the server, multiple connections, multiple transfers, or for simply misbehaving 
or breaking rules on the server; also, users may be banned as punishment or to eliminate a security risk.
Bandwidth
A data transmission rate; the maximum amount of information (bits/second) that can be transmitted along a 
channel. Different types of Internet connections have different bandwidths.
Base Folder
A folder contained on a server which holds the "user base" for the clients who connect to it. Different users and 
user classes may have different base folders, which may mean that the server appears different to some users 
than it does to others. Base folders are assigned by the server administrator through the account creation 
process.
Bookmark
The address of a server that is saved in the client software, in the address book menu. Usually, bookmarks 
contain the server name, it's DNS or IP address, a login and a password (if they are necessary for access to the 
server).
Client
A computer program that requests a service from another computer which is running the corresponding server 
program.  Servers and clients are paired, meaning that if a client is to successfully communicate with a server, 
it must be the same type of client (for example, KDX), or at least compatible.
Clipboard
Also known as copy & paste. The clipboard is a place in your computer system where you can copy things to, 
such as text, pictures, etc. Once you have copied something to the clipboard, you can then "paste" it 
somewhere, and the copied material appears where you pasted it. The clipboard is very useful for transferring 
information from one program to another, or from one document to another. 
Connect
To establish a connection, between a client and server. In order to use a KDX client, it must connect to a 
server. Connections are made by clicking the connect button and typing in the information, clicking on a server 
listing in a tracker, or by clicking a bookmark. When the connection is established, the client shows the server 
name and usually a banner or graphic at the top of the KDX menu.
Disconnect
To terminate a client / server connection. This may be accomplished by clicking the disconnect button in the 
KDX menu, or by using the exit button. Some disconnects are unintentional and the connection must be 
reestablished in order for transfers to complete.
Download
If you download a file, it means that you are copying/transfering that file from a computer on the Internet (or 
other network) to your computer.  See also Upload, which is the reverse operation.
Drop Box
A KDX folder type. Drop boxes have several functions. They create a secure, private environment for users to 
store private files. Most drop boxes are login protected, which means that the contents can only be viewed by 
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 30 of 32

--- Page 31 ---
the user with a login that matches the drop box login (and by the server administrator).  They also provide a 
secure method of communicating with the server administrator.
Dynamic IP Address
The Internet address of either a client or server that is changed by the Internet Service Provider (ISP) each time 
that the computer establishes a connection to the Internet. 
Encryption
The conversion from plain text into code or the encoding of a file into a seemingly nonsensical code, usually 
done by an algorithm. All KDX file transfers are encrypted for security purposes. Partially transferred files are 
unusable until the transfer is complete.
File Transfer
 
The electronic transfer (either download or upload) of a file from one location to another.
Firewall
A software or hardware device that prohibits incoming connections on chosen ports. If a server's computer is 
using a firewall, the server operator has opened a specific port (or two) for clients to use to connect.
Guest
A common account class known on KDX as an "anonymous" account. The client user does not need to have an 
account to connect to the server, usually the login and password may be left blank. Most public servers listed in 
the KDX trackers have guest accounts.
Intranet
A privately owned network where access is usually restricted to members or employees of the organization that 
owns it.
Internet
An international worldwide computer network. Formed from the words "International Network."
ISP
Internet Service Providers are the companies providing our connections to the Internet, whether it is via dialup 
connection, cable, DSL or satellite.
LAN
Local Area Network.  A type of network which is geographically limited to a small area (for example, to within 
a one kilometer radius, or within a home, office, or building).  A LAN may also be connected to a bigger 
network, such as the Internet.
Login
A user login is usually assigned by a server administrator for entry into the server. Generally this is assigned 
when an account is made for the user, and most of the time (but not always) it is the screen name or nickname 
of that user. Most users are known to server administrators by their login name, since sometimes clients change 
their screen nicknames. 
Path
A file/folder path is the method by which you access certain files or folders on a server. Clients open a base 
folder, then one or two more inner folders (sometimes more) to reach the location of the file they are seeking to 
download. To upload, clients usually look for a dedicated "uploads" folder within the base folder.
Private Chat
A method of communication between two or more individuals who are connected to the same server. A private 
chat may be created by a user or administrator with the privilege to do so, and he/she may invite other users 
into the chat at any time. Private chat is not accessible by other users unless they are specifically invited.
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 31 of 32

--- Page 32 ---
Port Number
Every computer and network has a very wide range of ports in which to choose from. These ports are used by 
both the client and the server. The server uses a port number in it's address, for the client to connect (default 
port is 10700), and the client software will use random port numbers for each connection to the server. 
Incoming ports must be opened if a firewall is running on the computer or network, outgoing ports do not need 
to be opened by the client user.
Protocol
A procedure for controlling the communication between two programs on different computers on a network.  
In some ways, it is similar to a language.  For example, if two programs do not "speak" the same protocol, 
then they cannot communicate with each other.
Public Chat
A method of communication by client users connected to a server. Public chat is accessible by clicking the 
Public Chat button on the KDX menu. Public chat is open to anyone on the server, although permission to join 
and to speak may be given or taken by the server administrator. Some servers require users to be present in 
public chat at all times.
Refresh
 
A refresh button (usually at the top of a KDX file window) will request fresh information to be fetched again 
from the server. This is sometimes necessary if you have been connected to a server for a long time, or to see if 
a file transfer has been completed.
Server
A "Server" is a computer program which provides some service to other programs which are known as clients. 
Servers usually run continuously 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The service is provided via a network such as 
the Internet or an Ethernet LAN, using a special network protocol that is tailored to the specific services being 
provided. Servers are often passive entities, doing little or nothing until a client connects and requests service.  
"Server" is also used to refer to the computer which is running the server program.
Static IP Address
The Internet address of either a client or server that is always the same, and not changed by the Internet Service 
Provider (ISP) each time that the computer establishes a connection to the Internet. Usually cable connections 
are static, as they maintain a connection all the time.
Transfer Speed
 
The measurement of bandwidth usage (as in 20 K/sec) is the speed in which file transfer rates are taking place 
between the client and server. The transfer speed is indicated in the "File Transfers" box, which pops up when 
a transfers begin, and also in the connection monitor, which is accessible through the administration menu.
User
A "User" is a person who is using a computer or a program (as opposed to a programmer, who actually creates 
the program in the first place).  A user may also be a person who has an account at a server, but is not an 
administrator.
Upload
If you upload a file, it means that you are copying/transfering a file on your computer to another computer on 
the Internet (or other network).  Upload also means sending data.  See also Download, which is the reverse 
operation.
URL
Uniform Resource Locator.  A standard way of specifying the location of an object, typically a web page, on 
the Internet.  Example:   http://www.haxial.com/faq/   It is in this format:   protocol://address/path/
Haxial KDX Documentation Page 32 of 32